Secure Data Sharing helps in sharing selected database objects from Snowflake account to other Snowflake accounts

The following database objects of Snowflake can be shared:
• Tables
• Secure materialized views
• Secure UDFs
• External tables
• Secure views
Snowflake enables the sharing of databases through shares, which are created by data providers and consumed by data consumers.

Provider Account - This is the Snowflake account that owns and shares data with other Snowflake accounts. 
The provider creates and manages the data.  We can share single or multiple databases with Grant Permission on the shared objects from 
the Database.
The provider is responsible for the storage costs of the shared data.

Consumer Account – A data consumer  be any (Either Snowflake or Non snowflake) that consume the share made by a data provider.
 Consumers can query and analyze the shared data for their specific needs. They typically have read-only access to the 
shared data and are responsible for the compute costs associated with querying that data within their own account.

It is also possible to share data with non-snowflake user, which is done by creating a reader account.
All compute cost of reader account are billed to provider account.

Reader Acount - Reader Account is meant for Non-Snowflake Data consumers who do not own any snowflake account.
                Reader accounts are created and maintained by data provider

Like Time Travel and cloning Snowflake Data sharing  is also a metadata operation. During data sharing, 
no data is moved or copied. Instead shares table and its micro-partition. That way any changes in the source table 
automatically mirrored in the shared table.
Secure data sharing can be done in three different ways.
1.	Direct Share
2.	Data Marketplace
3.	Data Exchange

DESCRIBE SHARE <share object> 
As a Data Cosumer account you can only query data. No re-share it to other accounts and updates to objects not possible
For data security and privacy reasons, only secure views are supported in shares


